22 questions

good sites:
gauthmath.com
https://www.certcommunity.org/forum/topic/5888-offer-understanding-cisco-network-automation-essentials-%E2%80%94-16-ce-credits-free-from-c1sco-u/page/3/

Which two request/response formats are supported in RESTCONF API
xml and json


what is the last step in creating a template out of a device configuration?
replacing the device specific values from the commit dry-run command with variables?
bainly said remove device specific info

In Cisco NSO, where can you find the YANG data models for the device configurations?
in the Configuration Database ? unsure

What is the result of the FASTMAP algorithm?
minimum set of device configuration changes ? not sure

Which commit flag would you use to commit changes if one of the devices in the transaction has out of band changes, is in out-of sync state, and you still want to perform a commit operation?
commit no-out-of-sync-check ? not sure

Which command should you use to generate XML configuration output?
commit dry-run outformat xml i think is right or could be "get-config outformat xml" or "commit | display xml"

Which three parameters are mandatory when adding a device manually? (Choose three.)
Device type, IP address, and Authgroup configuration?

Match the NSO component with its respective roles or tasks.
CDB - Is in charge of service modeling using YANG, mapping to device models using templates or Java/Python code and service management activities
Core engine - Handles all operations within the transaction manager, including event logging, performing validation, authentication, and rollback management
Device manager - Stores NSO's own configuration, the configuration of all services, copies of the configuration of all managed devices, and all operational data specific to NSO
service manager - Simplifies device interface integration and handles device configuration scenarios

Which of the following is a benefit of pyATS?
Automates the testing environment, profiles operational states and compares results 
I think


Which three of the following statements apply to the pyATS library Diff command? (Select three)

    pyATS diff compares "snapshots" of the network from the parse or learn device output
    pyATS diff allows you to exclude keys you do not want to be compared
    pyATS diff can (only?) be used to compare both parse and learn command output


What bests describes the pyATS parser?
It converts device outputs to Python dictionaries and standardizes the output?

Which tool provides a web-based network test automation solution that can schedule jobs and reserve resources for scheduled tests??
jenkins?


Which three of the following are the major pyATS AEtest sections? (Choose three) saw this on https://www.certcommunity.org
test cases
common setup?
profiller?

What is one of the advantages of using pyATS to profile a network state?
pyATS network profiling compares network states automatically. - this is my best guess


What best describes a pyATS testbed?
t is a YAML-formatted file that describes the devices and how they link together to form the network topology.
this is my best guess

Which stage of the DevOps pipeline allows for early detection and resolution of conflicts?
Test
this is my best guess

Which modeling language is used by Cisco Network Services Orchestrators (NSO) to describe the data model framework for services and devices?
YANG
this is my best guess

Which option best describes Ansible and NSO integrations?
Ansible has several modules for NSO automation..

What is considered good policy when defining the source of truth for a network that is managed as Infrastructure as Code (IaC)? (Choose 3)
Storing circuit information
maintiang the iac
assiging subnets


How does GitLab execute instructions on the GitLab CI pipeline?
It runs the CI pipeline on any runner that is registered and enabled for a GitLab project.
my best guess

Which statement describes the AEtest structure?
"Common Setup," "Testcase(s)," and "Common Cleanup,

What option is a continuous integration benefit?
CI increases the speed to market and helps to realize revenue and results faster.
